Welcome to Dungeon Dusk! The first ever Open-Source RPG card game! There is much learn so let's get right into it!

Chapter 1: Basic Rules

Getting Started:

This game is for 4-8 players. Each of the players at the beginning of the game must choose their class from the 8 classes provided. 
When this is done, assign turn order to all players and you are ready to begin. Be sure to hand out any accompanying books to
the players who class they apply to. For instance, the Mage should be given the Book of Magic, the Priest given the Book of Blessings, 
and the Chemist given the Book of Recipes. Be sure to have a pen and paper nearby as well for the Mage, Yeoman, and Blacksmith. 
The Mage needs it in order to keep track of their mana, and the Yeoman and Blacksmith need it in order to keep track of their
strength.

Order your Room and Chest card decks into two piles. Each turn, a player will take a turn to "lead the group", meaning they are the one 
who draws the door card. The player who draws the door card on their turn "opens the door", enters the room with the team but is the 
only one who can collect anything in it. This player can gift items they acquire to teammates at any time. 

A player can choose to enter the room alone or with the team. The player can also choose who stays and who goes into the room with them. 
When you draw a door card, it means you've entered that room. If the door card is a monster, it means there is a monster in that room
and you must kill it before you leave. Loot is dependant upon the monster you kill and whether or not it drops loot. Some monsters,
for instance, will say "Roll D6 > 4 for two chest items." This means that after you kill the monster, roll a D6 and if you get 
a 4 or higher, you can draw 2 Chest cards. Only the leader at that turn can collect the loot from the monster or boss.

During combat with a monster, after each player who is in the room takes their attack turn, two D6 dice must be rolled. Since
each player has a number (first to take their turn, second, third, etc) use the same order to assign to every even number that can be 
rolled during the combats 2D6 roll. For instance, if you role a 4 with both dice, the second player in the order of turns takes damage
from that monster. If you roll a 5, the monster misses its attack. Be sure to do this after each time someone attacks the monster and 
the monster is still alive.

If the door card is an item, you can collect that item and end your turn. If the door is a chest and requires a key, you can use the
key if you have it that turn or "hold the room". Holding the room is when you set that door card aside and end your turn. If at any point y
you find the correct key needed, you can roll a D6 to get back to that room. However, if you roll a 1-3, that means you failed to find
the room again. If you fail after 3 attempts, you lose the room and have to put it into your discard pile. If you roll a 4-6, you find the 
room and are able to open the chest. A player can only hold room at a time. 

A player can also hold an item. For instance, if an archer finds a bow that requires more strenght then they have, he can hold onto it
until he gains the neeeded strength. A player can only hold onto one weapon that they are not using, 3 potions they are not using, 3 pieces
of food and can not carry armor that they are not using. Unless you recieve an item that increases your storage, all players must abide by
these restrictions.

There are corresponding companion guides for certain class types. For the Chemist, a recipe book is given. In this book, 
a chemist can save recipe cards they recieve in the sleeves of it's pages. However, a chemist must discard each recipe card
from their book after use. Likewise, a mage can learn new spells from magic book pages they find. However, a mage does not
need to pages from their book after use. A mage can not keep more spells that the book can keep, as is the same for the 
chemist and their recipes.

In order to win the game, the players must kill all 4 bosses. There is one way to win, but many ways to lose. One of them is the 
most obvious, and that is dying. If all members of a party die, the game is over. Thankfully, there are items used to revive players. 
However, here is a list of how you can lose this game:

-All players cursed and priest is perma-dead.
-All players halucinating during combat
-All players cursed by Seni
-Mage rolls less than a 4 while using "Witherall" 
-Lormus kills all players


Chapter 2: Unique Game Mechanics

Each player's class plays a very special purpose. Several of these classes have access to cards or companion books that other players
do not have. These classes are the Priest, Mage, Chemist and Blacksmith. The Priest should receive the Prayer Book, the Mage should
receive the Spellbook. The Prayer Book should come complete with all the prayers and blessings they can perform. The Spellbook is empty,
with card sleeves available for spell cards. The mage needs to pull all the spell cards out of the deck, choose three at random facedown,
and use those three as their starterspells, placing them in the spellbook. The rest of the spell cards should then be shuffled back
into the deck. The Blacksmith's blueprint book is empty for the Blacksmith to store any blueprints they find in the Dungeon. This is the
same for the Chemist's Recipe Book. 

A mage is given mana 10 mana coins to start and "taps" mana coins after casting spells by keeping spent mana aside. Mana restores after a
mage's turn cycle, unless hindered by a curse or item or if the mage has to take two consectutive turns. A mage may get extra mana coins
if given via a power up, item or blessing.

A priest's prayer book includes many prayers and blessings that also include how long a priest is unable to do anything but pray. Some 
prayers and blessings require the priest to lose a turn. 

A chemist can keep ingredients pages in their recipe book. Each recipe requires ingredients. When an item is crafted, the item card is
placed on the table, and all of its ingredients should be placed under it. When the item is used and discarded, all ingredients are to 
be discarded with it as well.

The blacksmith can similarly use parts to build weapons, tools and armor with blueprint cards. Once a blacksmith finds a blueprint card,
they can save it in their Blueprint Book, or use items in their inventory to craft the item. Similar to an item that the Chemist makes, 
a crafted item is placed on the table, with each part used to make it piled underneath it. 

The Priest, Blacksmith, Mage and Chemist can only pray, craft, cast or brew once per turn unless an item or effect grants otherwise.

When a player uses a potion, the effects of the ingredients are ignored. Ingredient effects only take effect when eaten individually.

Chapter 3: Combat

When your team encounters an enemy, the team is given the first chance to enter a combat phase and attack unless a rogue fails their 
sneak or a monster's ability allows it to strike first.

During a combat phase, the person who is leading that turn can attack or use an item. Then it is the monster's turn to attack. All
monsters have a default 50/50 chance of hitting or missing. During a monster(s)'s attack phase, a player must roll a D8 to see who
gets attacked by the monster. Based off of the order of each turn, a player is a assigned a number. Whichever place you were in when it 
was your turn, that's your number. If the D8 rolled lands on your number, the monster will be attacking you. A player must then roll 
greater than a 3 (D6 > 3) for the monster to miss. Anything from 3 to 1 is a hit. 

If a monster hits you, it deals whatever it's attack points are (plus any additional effects that boost its attack) to you. Whatever
number it's attack is, subtract that first from your total defense (Base defense plus item/armor defense). If the attack number exceeds your
defense count, deduct the remaining amount from your health. Armor or item defense replenishes at the end of an attack phase,
but health is only replenished by potions or food. It does not auto-regenerate.

This is also true for a monster's defense. Unless and effect changes it, the monster will have its set amount of defense each time a
player's attack phase begins, requiring the player's attack to do damage in the amount greater than the monster's defense.
